hi this is pressure Locker in this video
I'm going to teach you how you can
calculate cube roots in your head why
would you ever want to do this the
education secretary Nicky Morgan was
recently on TV and put on the hot seat
she was asked by ten-year-old the
question what is the cube root of 125
she refused to answer any math questions
on TV and I understand that but if she
knew the trick in this video she could
have answered it very quickly and done
many more math problems so to do the
trick you first have to memorize the
cubes of each number from 1 to 10 the
cube of a number is the number
multiplied by itself three times so the
cube of 1 is still 1 the cube of 2 is 8
the cube of 3 is 27 and I'm going to
keep writing the cubes of each number so
you may know some of these otherwise to
do this trick you'll have to memorize
these 10 numbers
now once we've written down these cubes
I want you to focus on the very last
digit of the number of the cube so
what's important is that each of these
10 numbers end in a different last digit
and that will be very important to doing
this trick so this will be another thing
you have to memorize when you memorize
these ten digits you should also
remember the last digit so an easy way
to remember this is that for the numbers
one four five six nine and zero the last
digit is the same as the numbers and for
the numbers 2 & 8 & 3 & 7
the last digit flips so the last digit
for 2 is 8 and the last digit for 3 7
and vice versa
so let's do the trick what's the cube
root of 39 thousand three hundred and
four the first thing I want you to do is
look at the last digit the last digit of
39 thousand three hundred and four is
four which we're going to put in a box
so we look up four in the last digit and
that corresponds to the number four so
we write down the number four the next
step is we ignore the last three digits
of our number so in thirty nine thousand
three hundred and four we're going to
just ignore the three hundred and four
and now we want to find the closest cube
without going over so 39 is between 27
and sixty-four so it's actually closest
to 27 without going over which means is
closest to the cube of 3 and that gives
us the other part of our answer which is
three so here we have it we put the
numbers together and 34 is the cube root
of 39 thousand three hundred and four so
why would this ever be useful so here's
a trick you can do ask someone to pick a
number from 1 to 100 and just think
about it secretly don't have them tell
you the number have them cube the number
on a calculator and hat once they cube
the number they tell you the cube and
you instantly can tell them the cube
root by using this table and using the
trick so let's imagine they tell you the
number is six hundred and thirty six
thousand and fifth
six so we look at the last digit which
is six and when the last digit is six
that corresponds to the number six and
then we look at the we ignored the last
three digits and we look at 636 that's
between the cubes of eight nine so we
put eight and therefore the cube root is
86 so once you get used once you've
memorized this table it'll actually be
able to do this very quickly let's do
another example
one hundred and eighty five thousand one
hundred and ninety three we look at the
last digit of three that corresponds to
the number seven because three and seven
flip then we ignore the last three
digits and we look at 185 and that's
closest to the cube of five without
going over so that gives us the answer
of 57 so it's a pretty neat trick and if
you want to know how this works you can
click through I made a short video which
gives a math proof if you like this
video please subscribe to my channel you
can support me on patreon to get
exclusive rewards catch me on my blog
minor decisions on Twitter at pressure
Locker and you can my books listed on my
website